 What is the best system for taking notes in class? Well, luckily for you, I did the research, and it turns out that there are five different note-taking systems that are generally accepted to be pretty darn good. And of course, I will be representing these note-taking systems with street fighter characters, because... why not? So, the five note-taking systems I'm going to go over in this video include the outline method, the Cornell method, the MindMap method, the Flow method, and the right on the Slides method. The first note-taking system on my list is the Outline method. I chose to re-u, to represent it, because the outline method is straightforward, based on hierarchy, discipline, and overall very simple. In fact, you couldn't get more simple than the outline method, unless you were just straight up writing paragraph notes down. And if you think that's going to be a good note-taking method, well, things are not going to work out for you. So, the outline method is a note-taking system that's based on bullet points, and hierarchy. Basically, to take outline style notes, you simply create top-level bullet points of all the main points in the lecture. Then you make lower-level bullet points to fill out all the details. If you're taking outline notes on paper, it's a good idea to either space out your main bullet points or summarize them at the top if your professor goes through them, and then make new bullet points that are more detailed down the line. However, if you're taking these notes on a computer like I always did in a program like Evernote or Byward or another word processor, you can easily go back and add new bullet points and format things without having to mess up the structure of your document too much. So, honestly, for the outline method, I think using a computer is a perfect approach. The second note-taking method on my list is the Cornel method, and I chose to chun Lee to represent it, because she's got multiple kicks and it's got multiple sections. The Cornel method was developed by Walter Pock back in the 1950s, and it still holds up pretty well today. When you take your notes in the Cornel style, you divide your paper into three distinct sections. On the top of your paper, you'll have two different columns, the left one being the Q column, and the right one being the note-taking column. And underneath those two columns, you add another box for the summary. During class, you use the note-taking column on the right to write notes in a normal style. However, this is where the Cornel method deviates from other note-taking systems. As soon as you can after class, you write down questions or cues in the Q column. These are meant to help you review later. You also write down a summary of the lecture in the summary column. These two sections of the Cornel method, the summary and the Q column, they're both designed to help you build reviewable notes the first time you write them. That way you don't have to go back and rework your notes so much. Note-taking system number three is the Mind Map method. You know, it's been said that your mind is a map of the territory that is reality. So maybe by that logic, the Mind Map system is the perfect note-taking system. Actually, that doesn't make any sense at all. Either way, I chose Dullseam to represent the Mind Mapping system because he's a meditator and he's always focused on improving his mind. To begin a Mind Map, you simply take a blank piece of paper, draw a circle on the middle of it, and add the main topic of the lecture there. Then you'll start branching off little trees and adding subtopics. Eventually, you'll have lots of little branches and you'll create a Mind Map. I never actually used Mind Maps for my class notes, but I have used them for blog post topics before. When I wanted to write a blog post on all the ways you could save money in college, I wanted to make sure I could cover all my bases. So I created a Mind Map. I put saving money in college in the middle and then tried to figure out all the different facets of a student's life where they have to spend money. Building a Mind Map helped me organize all these topics, and as a result, I was able to create a more comprehensive list in the end. The fourth note-taking system is the Flow Method. This system was invented by the writer Scott Young, who's probably best known for going through the entire MIT computer science curriculum in a single year. Scott uses what he calls holistic learning and his approach is diametrically opposed to the rigid, transcribing style of the outline method. As a result, I chose Blanca to represent this note-taking system. His fighting style is that of basically a wild animal, and it's the complete opposite of more disciplined fighters like Ryu or Gile. And that is a perfect way to describe the flow system of note-taking. You're not trying to get every single detail from the lecture down to your paper, and in fact, the point is not to transcribe the lecture at all, rather it's to learn while you are sitting in class. As you take your notes, your goal is to create an original document that represents your mental image of the subject. It's not to record verbatim what your professor said. As you take notes, you can go back to earlier points, add details, draw in arrows and little offshoots, and basically create something that is your own. The entire point of the Flow System of Note-taking is to learn it once. This lets you accelerate your learning, and that's the real strength of the system. Final system of taking notes is the lazy man's way of taking notes. And I call it the right on the slides method. To represent this note-taking method, I chose Zankeef. Because Zankeef. Seriously, do you really think I'll put a whole lot of thought into these things? If your professor actually lets you download the lecture slides before class, then it can be pretty convenient to just go print them off the computer lab and write directly on them. One of the cool things about this method is that the slides more or less mirror the flow of the lecture, so you almost get a sort of timeline view when you take notes on slides. It's kind of like SoundCloud, where people can actually leave comments at specific times during an audio file. Taking notes on slides isn't that accurate, but it's pretty close. And when you do it, you can look back and say, okay, at this slide he was talking about return on the cost of buzzwords, synergy management. So those are the real strengths of the method. You don't have to write as much because the slides sort of do it for you, and you get a sort of timeline view for your notes. So those are, in my humble opinion, the best five note-taking systems out there. Which one's right for you? Hey there! Thanks for watching my video on the different note-taking systems you can use. If you liked this video, I would absolutely appreciate it if you could give it a like and share it with a friend who's maybe not as good of taking notes as you are. Charity's a good thing, right? If you want to get more videos every single week on being awesome at college, including more videos on how to take better notes, which I'll have coming out in the next couple of weeks, then hit the subscribe button up in the corner. Yeah, that one! If you missed last week's video, well, you can click the button right under that. It's not actually a button, it's more like a little movie clip, but it'll get you there all the same, so whatever. You want to get links to other websites with additional information on any of these note-taking systems, then click the orange logo on the left corner where you'll find the companion blog post for this video. If you'd like to get a free chapter of my book hack and productivity when it comes out, well, click that thing. Also, if you would like to suggest any other video ideas for the future, or leave a comment, then leave a comment, or you can connect with me on Twitter.